think of any implementation for the simulation result repository file
模拟夏天的温度， 然后看energy usage 是多少
maybe 改一下直接模拟晚上和早上的 因为一直慢慢run到晚上等之后demo 的时候应该很麻烦


Task
saw the whatifanalysis allow setting of per room baseload and baseload but the frontend does not show this selection (can implement or remove this baseload changing function)
saw there is cost in the what if analysis ask gpt which cost value is reasonable
proceed to implement anomaly detection
implement graph output

Debug

minor fix（之后才fix）:
先改frontend的design 
白天厕所的温度跟房间温度差 4度

当manual 按cooling 和 heating temperature 变化太大（ 不确定是否还需要留这个功能）
washroom 1 and 2 dont have hvac , so when select do not show the turn on, off and auto button for them
go whatifimplementation.md and analysisguide.md to check for future enhancement
current power should display the power that is calculated using the regression model
whatifanaylsis： 把baseline 跟scenario 换个可以一眼懂得名字


Note 
always run mvn clean compile when make any changes on the .ecore and .smartoffice file

Git Best Practice
Create a new branch when implementing a feature (git checkout -b branch name)
Add,commit and push( git push origin branch name) to that branch ( if will go into an editor , press esc and type :wq to exit)
Merge it to main   ( git merge branch name)
Delete branch (Git commits are the checkpoint not the branch)


Answer for Question
1. dataManager and predictiveModel and digital twin in the metamodel 的用处是什么 because seems like we are not using them
metamodel defines the concept and structure of the system (like a system blueprint)
You then choose how to implement those in the code

metamodel is not:
 -a to-do list, 
 -promise that everything must run in emf 
 -and a requirement that every element must have code 

meaning it does not say you must implement a feature inside emf, it say the system contain this feature.
How you implement it is on your choice

can explain like this in the report 
The metamodel includes concepts such as DataManager and PredictiveModel to represent data flow and analytics at 
a conceptual level. In the current prototype, these elements are not directly executed by the EMF engine. 
Instead, their responsibilities are implemented through Spring Boot services and machine learning components. 
This separation allows the model to remain technology-agnostic while enabling flexible backend implementation.

2. Differences between springboot api test and powershell api test
Springboot api test check if the API endpoint behave correctly inside the application
Springboot api test runs inside spring, it does not required backend to be run, faster speed and best for development and CI(Continous Integration)
Powershell api test check if the deployed system work end to end
Powershell api test runs outside the system, required backend to be run, slower speed and best for validation and demo

In a project we need to use both of it.

3.What is a unit test and integration test
A unit test test one small piece of logic in isolation, one class one method no database and no web server
Goal is to check if the method work correctly by itself

An integration test check that multiple components works together.
Goal is to check if part integrate correctly
For example:
Service + Repository 
Controller + Service

Service level documentation explains what a service does and why, not whether it works

4. What is pagination
Pagination is a techinqiue to retrieve data in small chunks(pages) instead of loading everything at once from the database. think
of it like reading a book page by page instead of trying to read all 1000 pages at once.

Example:
1. PageRequest.of(0, trainingSampleSize, Sort.by(Sort.Direction.ASC, "date"))
  - this mean give me the first page, but make the page size big enough to hold 4252 records(20% of the dataset)

2. PageRequest.of(0, stepsNeeded, Sort.by(Sort.Direction.ASC, "date"))
  - this mean give me the first 96(stepsNeeded) records that come after a date

Why do you use pagination?
Pagination allows me to efficiently query large datasets without loading everything into memory.

For example, my dataset has over 21,000 sensor readings. During simulation, I only need ONE record at a 
time, so I use PageRequest.of(index, 1, ...) to fetch just that single record.

For predictions, I only need the next 96 records (24 hours × 4 steps/hour), so I use 
PageRequest.of(0, 96, ...) to get exactly those records.

This approach is memory-efficient and follows best practices for working with large datasets in Spring Boot and MongoDB.

5. Why the ML Prediction Value in the Anomaly Detection Appears Constant

In the current implementation, the anomaly detection model uses HVAC power consumption and a base load as its primary input features. 
Under normal operating conditions, the HVAC system reaches a steady-state once the indoor temperature approaches the target setpoint. 
As a result, HVAC power consumption remains nearly constant over time. Since the Linear Regression model learns a direct relationship 
between these input features and the predicted power, the predicted value also remains approximately constant.

This behaviour does not indicate a fault in the machine learning model. Instead, it reflects the limited variability of the input features
provided to the model. When the inputs do not change significantly, the model output naturally remains stable.

To demonstrate that the machine learning prediction is dynamic and responsive to different operating conditions, additional debug statements were introduced. 
These experiments show that when the target temperature is modified, the HVAC system requires different amounts of power to reach the new setpoint. 
Consequently, the Linear Regression model scales its prediction proportionally to the change in HVAC power, confirming that the model responds correctly to variations in input data.

Although the target temperature may remain fixed during normal operation, HVAC power consumption varies dynamically based on the instantaneous temperature error between the current indoor temperature
and the desired setpoint. As the room approaches the target temperature, the required heating or cooling load decreases, resulting in lower HVAC power consumption. Once thermal equilibrium is achieved, 
the system enters a steady-state phase where only maintenance energy is required.

6.Why use a linear regression based calibration ?
Before going into this question, let's first answer what is a calibration.
Calibration aligns the simulated system with the real world measurement. For example i am a student from malaysia
to obtain Malaysia time from UK time, a fixed offset is added in my case it will be +8.

In this project, a linear regression-based calibration is used for the following reason:
There is a systematic difference between simulation and real data. My model only handles HVAC and minimal base load,
while the real dataset includes additional constant energy consumer.This causes the trend of energy usage is similar but 
the absolute values are consistently different.

Linear regression is suitable because it can correct a scaling difference (by the slope) and a constant offset (by the intercept).

Why did you use linear regression instead of a decision tree or other ML methods?
I chose linear regression because the relationship between simulated HVAC power and real building power is approximately linear. 
The main difference comes from unmodeled constant loads such as lighting and equipment, which appear as a linear offset rather than nonlinear behavior.

In my system, the physics-based model already captures the main dynamics of HVAC energy. The real building
power differs mainly by a proportional scaling and a constant base load. This fits naturally into a linear relationship.

Decision trees are more suitable when:
  -Relationships are highly nonlinear
  -There are many interacting categorical features

Linear regression provides explicit parameters—a slope and an intercept—that have physical meaning. 
This allows me to explain exactly how the simulation is being calibrated.

For example:
  -Slope → HVAC scaling mismatch
  -Intercept → constant background loads
Decision trees do not offer this level of physical interpretability.

Decision trees can overfit when the feature set is small or when the input signal is relatively constant,
which is the case for HVAC power under steady operation. Linear regression provides smoother and more stable predictions.

The goal of this project is not to compare machine learning algorithms, but to demonstrate a digital twin system that integrates
physics-based simulation with data-driven calibration and anomaly detection.Linear regression achieves this with minimal complexity.

Could decision tree work?
Yes, decision trees could be used if additional nonlinear features such as weather conditions, or equipment schedules were included. 
However, given the current feature set, linear regression is the most suitable choice.



Implement anomaly detection for building energy consumption using a simple machine learning–inspired residual-based approach suitable for a Final Year Project.

Conceptual Approach (must be followed)
Use a calibrated digital twin + residual-based anomaly detection:
Calibrate the simulation output using an existing calibration factor
Compute residual between calibrated simulation and real power usage
Detect anomalies by checking whether the residual exceeds a defined threshold
This approach should be simple, interpretable, and explainable, not a complex black-box model.

Constraints & Design Requirements
Follow Spring Boot best practices
Service layer logic
No business logic inside controllers
Follow clean software architecture
Create new service / class files if necessary
Single responsibility per class
Keep logic simple, readable, and well-commented

Assume or check if :
Calibration factor is already computed
Real and simulated power values are available

No external ML libraries (e.g. TensorFlow, Weka)
Must be suitable for academic evaluation (FYP)

Detection Method Requirements
Use residual-based detection
Residual formula:
residual = |realPower − calibratedSimulatedPower|

An anomaly is detected when:
residual > threshold

Threshold can be:
Fixed (e.g. percentage of real power), or
Based on historical average residual (simple approach)

Expected Output
Provide ONE Java service method
Method should:
Take real power, simulated power, and calibration factor as input
Return an anomaly result (boolean or DTO)
Include clear inline comments explaining:
Why calibration is applied
How residual is calculated
How anomaly decision is made

Code must be ready to integrate into a Spring Boot backend

Additionally, generate a simple Spring Boot API test
to verify the anomaly detection endpoint.

The test should:
- Use MockMvc
- Cover at least:
  1) A normal case where no anomaly is detected
  2) A case where an anomaly is detected due to high residual
- Assert the anomaly flag in the response
- Keep the test simple and suitable for a Final Year Project